googlemock/README.md, before:

# Googletest Mocking (gMock) Framework

### Overview

Google's framework for writing and using C++ mock classes. It can help you
derive better designs of your system and write better tests.

It is inspired by:

*   [jMock](http://www.jmock.org/)
*   [EasyMock](http://www.easymock.org/)
*   [Hamcrest](http://code.google.com/p/hamcrest/)

It is designed with C++'s specifics in mind.

gMock:

-   Provides a declarative syntax for defining mocks.
-   Can define partial (hybrid) mocks, which are a cross of real and mock
    objects.
-   Handles functions of arbitrary types and overloaded functions.
-   Comes with a rich set of matchers for validating function arguments.
-   Uses an intuitive syntax for controlling the behavior of a mock.
-   Does automatic verification of expectations (no record-and-replay needed).
-   Allows arbitrary (partial) ordering constraints on function calls to be
    expressed.
-   Lets a user extend it by defining new matchers and actions.
-   Does not use exceptions.
-   Is easy to learn and use.

Details and examples can be found here:

*   [gMock for Dummies](https://google.github.io/googletest/gmock_for_dummies.html)
*   [Legacy gMock FAQ](https://google.github.io/googletest/gmock_faq.html)
*   [gMock Cookbook](https://google.github.io/googletest/gmock_cook_book.html)
*   [gMock Cheat Sheet](https://google.github.io/googletest/gmock_cheat_sheet.html)

GoogleMock is a part of
[GoogleTest C++ testing framework](http://github.com/google/googletest/) and a
subject to the same requirements.

Commit message:

Googletest export
Rollback delete of unsupported/deprecated scripts

PiperOrigin-RevId: 396699187

googlemock/README.md, after:

# Googletest Mocking (gMock) Framework

### Overview

Google's framework for writing and using C++ mock classes. It can help you
derive better designs of your system and write better tests.

It is inspired by:

*   [jMock](http://www.jmock.org/)
*   [EasyMock](http://www.easymock.org/)
*   [Hamcrest](http://code.google.com/p/hamcrest/)

It is designed with C++'s specifics in mind.

gMock:

-   Provides a declarative syntax for defining mocks.
-   Can define partial (hybrid) mocks, which are a cross of real and mock
    objects.
-   Handles functions of arbitrary types and overloaded functions.
-   Comes with a rich set of matchers for validating function arguments.
-   Uses an intuitive syntax for controlling the behavior of a mock.
-   Does automatic verification of expectations (no record-and-replay needed).
-   Allows arbitrary (partial) ordering constraints on function calls to be
    expressed.
-   Lets a user extend it by defining new matchers and actions.
-   Does not use exceptions.
-   Is easy to learn and use.

Details and examples can be found here:

*   [gMock for Dummies](https://google.github.io/googletest/gmock_for_dummies.html)
*   [Legacy gMock FAQ](https://google.github.io/googletest/gmock_faq.html)
*   [gMock Cookbook](https://google.github.io/googletest/gmock_cook_book.html)
*   [gMock Cheat Sheet](https://google.github.io/googletest/gmock_cheat_sheet.html)

Please note that code under scripts/generator/ is from the
[cppclean project](http://code.google.com/p/cppclean/) and under the Apache
License, which is different from GoogleMock's license.

GoogleMock is a part of
[GoogleTest C++ testing framework](http://github.com/google/googletest/) and a
subject to the same requirements.
